---
title: "Recently, May 4, 2025"
date: 2025-05-04 15:13 PDT
published: true
tags: [weeknotes, recently]
---

Frontdoor Benefits, my new startup, posted [our first newsletter/update](https://frontdoorbenefits.substack.com/p/frontdoor-benefits-a-first-newsletter). In doing our “planning” for it I took a lot from how I apprach this blog:

> * We are writing to a single individual (”Dear treasured friend” not “Hey friends”).
> * We are writing from each of our personal voices (”This is Charlotte. I have… ” or “This is Ben. I have…”)
> * Tone is casual and informal, we are sharing the things we’ve done or are thinking about with a close and curious person.
> * We write about what we have done or thought about. Not so much what we intend to do in the future (definitely no commitments!)
> * We try to avoid talking about the newsletter itself. For example, we don’t say how frequently we want to publish, or apologizing for it being a minute. Every post of the newsletter just *is*.

It’s been successful so far, in that we asked for some things in it and people have delivered.

--- 

I have been doing lots of research and having interesting conversations about customer/client/caseworker/constituent relationship management. Not so much "salesforce"  or “hubspot” but how to break down identities and artifacts and tasks; differentiating between task-based from case-based models, and worker activity from supervisory concerns. _If you have experience, or opinions, or related traumas, I’d love to chat: ben@openfrontdoor.com._

--- 

I [discovered](https://github.com/hotwired/turbo-rails/issues/731) that `turbo-rails` debounces Refresh Broadcasts; after being surprised for many, many minutes why a Rails runner script wasn’t broadcasting as expected. One of those things that simply manifests as strangely broken if you don’t go and read the code. 

--- 

My new workday is settling down into routine, and now I’m trying to add a regular morning swim 3 days a week. I managed one. Progress!

---

I finished reading _Space Between Worlds_ and its sequel _Those Beyond the Wall_. And started Kirstin Chen’s _Counterfeit_ , which so far has me wondering whether phrases such as “nipple-length hair” is attributable to the character or the author (it was no mystery at all [the last time](https://island94.org/2025/04/recently-april-7-2025) this came up).

Katamari Damacy is on Apple Arcade, and I’ve been playing that. I also picked up The Long Dark again which I haven’t played since early access before they added a story mode; as a walking simulator it’s a little slow and bleak and I’m not a big fan of graphically dying… but it is a walking simulator and I like that.

Last night we saw Empire of the Sun at the Greek theatre. 

I renewed my CPR training and certification. That’s content.

--- 

We’re fostering [Dennis, a sweet tabby cat who needs a forever home](https://www.instagram.com/redcarpetcats/p/DJPuSbtTGYi/?img_index=1).  

--- 

Fuck, [AmeriCorps is gone](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmeriCorps/comments/1k8oh2r/hello_all_starting_a_thread_to_express_fears_and/).
