---
title: "Recently, March 16, 2025"
date: 2025-03-16 15:37 PDT
published: true
tags: [recently, weeknotes]
---

* We have promoted another cat to fostering: Merlin, the cat formerly known as Gray Cat.
* I finished the latest *Bruno, Chief of Police* book. I read it for the food and culture, but it has some bad descriptions of hacking in this one.  I started *The Midnight Library*, which as close as you can imagine to a TED talk but actually a novel. Next is *Careless People*, which I’m looking forward to; hopefully as exhilarating/vicariously-traumatic as *Exit Interview*.
* At work the latest is that all planning must snap to 1-month objectives. "If you don’t produce a plan, someone will produce one for you" is an advice. Super proud of the work: doing Pitchfork, kicking the tires on `ruby/json`, adding more knobs to Active Record. My Incident Commander shift was this week too; 2pm - 8pm really destroys the possibility of pre-dinner errands. 
* I bought a RailsConf supporter ticket. I submitted a panel discussion talk, so even if that’s accepted, I think I’ll still need a ticket. It’s for a good cause. 
* Some new Playdate games. *Echo: The Oracle’s Scroll* was the only one I’ve beaten so far, despite fiddly jumping puzzle, and the surprise ending by which I mean I was surprised when I went to chat with an owl-person and then the credits rolled. 
* I am recovering from pink eye, again. Reinfecting yourself is a thing that can happen. The last six months or so have not been my favorite, minor ailments-wise.
* Folks on Rails Performance Slack asked about Cursor rules, which was an opportunity for me to [consolidate mine](https://gist.github.com/bensheldon/00c23699bfb1857acbc2e9225de8adb1) from several projects. I dunno, it’s ok.
* After about a month, I think I’m an iPad Mini person. The screen is very not good, but I guess “the best screen is the screen you have” when said screen is bigger than a phone, but smaller than 11 inches. 
* [This](https://sfrecpark.org/CivicAlerts.aspx?AID=2127) is the most SF press release and I can’t wait.
