---
title: "Recently, April 20, 2025"
date: 2025-04-20 17:19 PDT
published: true
tags: [recently]
---

Angelina caught a cold, so the past week has been largely laying low and sleeping 9+ hours a night trying not to catch it myself. Not the worst life.

---

Elevating this to top fish recipe: [Rockfish, Garlic, Shallots, Tomatoes & and a lotta Herbs](https://www.seaforager.com/recipes/rockfish-garlic-shallots-tomatoes-amp-and-a-lotta-herbs).

---

Using ChatGPT’s Web Search is ok. “Find me articles, marketing posts, and conference talks about \[something\]”. I have to follow up several times slightly differently (“anything else? What about lightning talks?”) and copy resulting links into a separate doc to organize to have something approaching comprehensive….  But pretty good and better than what I can get out of either Kagi or Google. I ignore the summaries and chatty nonsense and just copy the links and read them myself. Sorry climate and future generations.

---

I cut ~30 seconds from my GitHub Actions build times by replacing my `apt-get install` step with an action that caches using [awalsh128/cache-apg-pkgs-action](https://github.com/awalsh128/cache-apt-pkgs-action); there’s a couple options but this one had the most stars in the marketplace:

```
# Before
- name: "Install packages"  
  run: |
  sudo apt-get -yqq update
  sudo apt-get -yqq install libvips-dev

# After
- name: "Install packages" 
  uses: awalsh128/cache-apt-pkgs-action@7ca5f46d061ad9aa95863cd9b214dd48edef361d
  with:
  packages: libvips-dev
  version: 1 # cache version, change to manually invalidate cache
  ```

---

Turbo/hotwire stuff: I’ve been gradually replacing more granular broadcasts of like prepend/update/remove with page refresh events for their simplicity. The challenge I have is that if there is a form + refreshable content on the same page (sometimes with the form in the middle or multiple forms). If the content refreshes, I don’t want to refresh the form. But I do want the form to refresh itself when submitted (show validation messages, reset, etc.). I can wrap the form in a data-turbo-permanent for the first part, but then the form doesn’t update when it’s submitted.

My workaround to that is a stimulus controller that wraps the form and removes the `data-turbo-permanent` when the form is submitted, inspired by [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/rails/comments/1d8fu0v/clever_new_hotwire_hack/). Is there a better way to do it?

```ruby
import { Controller } from "@hotwired/stimulus"

// To be used to wrap a form to allow the form to be permanent during
// Turbo Stream refresh events but to update normally when submitting the form.
// Example:
//  <div data-turbo-permanent id="<%= dom_id(@phone, :message_form) %>" data-controller="permanent-form">
//    <%= form_with ...
//  </div>

export default class extends Controller {
  connect() {
    this.submitHandler = this.submitForm.bind(this);
    this.element.addEventListener("submit", this.submitHandler);
  }

  disconnect() {
    this.element.removeEventListener("submit", this.submitHandler);
  }

  submitForm(event) {
    if (event.target.matches("form")) {
      this.element.removeAttribute("data-turbo-permanent");
    }
  }
}
```

---

I finished _Spinning Silver_. Now reading _The Space Between Worlds_.

I bought [_Javascript for Rails Developers_](https://javascriptforrails.com/), largely because I like [the posts on Rails Designer](https://railsdesigner.com/articles/).

I started the demo for Unbeatable ("where music is illegal and you do crimes"); I like the art style, but _is it fun?_ I dunno.

---

I had to go to the shipping warehouse to pick up my new [mechanical keyboard](https://island94.org/2025/04/recently-april-7-2025) because I kept missing the delivery person, but it otherwise arrived no problem.
